[Music]
well hi did you know that if you live up
to the age of 75 you'll have spent 25 of
those years sleeping that's one third of
your life asleep of that third a whole
six years is dedicated to dreaming well
if you're gonna spend so much time off
in dreamland you might as well get to
know some useful facts about this
magical place just don't forget to hit
that subscribe button and ring the
notification bell so that you don't miss
a thing on the bright side
number one you can problem solve in your
dreams there are actually stories of
people figuring out how to french braid
or solve some other mind-boggling puzzle
in their dreams
in fact as unbelievable as it might
sound some of the greatest inventions we
know of today can be attributed to a
dream for example it's where Larry Page
got the idea for Google where Nikola
Tesla was inspired to create his
alternating current generator and we're
dmitri mendeleev came up with a periodic
table of elements
have you ever solved a problem in a
dream this is exactly where the phrase
sleep on it comes from sleeping on
something often gives us a new
perspective on a problem we're facing
the famous pro golfer Jack Nicklaus even
cured a bad playing streak by figuring
out in a dream that he was holding his
club all wrong number two you're more
likely to have negative dreams than
positive ones
here's a dream we've all had you're
really stressed out and upset because
you can't seem to finish something
because there are too many obstacles
getting in the way a lot of former
waiters confess that they still have
dreams where they can't reach their
tables to take some guests orders it's a
terrible feeling to wake up from an
anxious dream like this but there
unfortunately much more common than
happy fun drinks in general the most
frequently felt emotions and dreams are
anxiety anger sadness and fear number
three you can control your dreams being
able to control your dreams is something
called lucid dreaming it's basically a
combination of simultaneously being in a
state of REM sleep which is when you
dream and in a state of consciousness
there's a whole club of people who
engage in it and they've come up with
all kinds of techniques you can use to
control your dreams for example you can
enter your dreams while still being
awake which is called the wild or wake
induced lucid dreaming method if you're
into a less complicated sounding
approach you can also try counting
backwards from 100 while repeating an
affirmation like I'm going to have a
lucid dream as you drift off to sleep as
for why people try to achieve lucid
dreaming well isn't it obvious
you can do anything you want whether it
be flying passing through walls or
traveling to different dimensions and
times if you're not sure whether or not
you're in a dream try reading something
or telling the time most people can't
read texts or clocks in their dreams
because they look like gibberish in the
dream world this trick will also help
you start lucid dreaming right away try
your best to remember this trick the
next time you go to bed and let me know
how it goes
number four you only remember about 10%
of your dreams are you one of those
people who just don't dream it all well
many claim this it's far from the truth
the reality is we all dream on average
about four to seven dreams per night
it's just that up to 60% of people don't
remember them at all
number five animals probably dream have
you ever watched your pet wag its tail
or move its paws as it was sleeping you
probably assumed they were dreaming
right
turns out you may be right while science
is still trying to figure this one out
it's been proven that all animals
experience cycles of REM and non-rem
sleep and even show the same brain
activity as humans do during dreaming a
my own dog not only moves his paws while
dreaming but he also barks actually
little Wolf's under his breath wakes me
up all the same though number 6 cave
paintings are most likely prehistoric
dream journals according to the Complete
Book of dreams by Julia and Derek Parker
some experts suggest that cave paintings
are actually records of dreams cavemen
probably recorded their dreams because
they thought that what they had seen was
some sort of a magical or divine message
hey I have to keep that in mind the next
time I dream about being chased by
kangaroos and clown suits yeah number
seven dreams are symbolic
dreams speak a very exclusive and
symbolic language so they're rarely what
they seem the Parkers complete book of
dreams describes dreams symbolism in a
really cool way saying every dream is a
message from yourself to yourself
expressed in a code that only you can
learn to understand and interpret
basically you are what you dream and
only you can decipher all those absurd
little movies playing in your head as
you sleep number eight blind people can
dream visually even if someone is blind
from birth their dreams can be just as
intense as a sighted persons only
there's one exception they involve all
the other senses except sight as for
blind people who lost their sight later
on most still retain the memories of
their sighted experiences and can still
have visual dreams number nine many
dreams are universal
cross-culturally some of the most common
dreams are of being chased being
attacked
falling repeating an action over and
over again being frozen with fear and
being late for something contrary to
popular belief or cliches dreams of
flying or being naked in public aren't
as common number 10 men in women dream
differently according to psychologists
and dream study expert dr. Patrick
McNamara men and women don't dream a lot
first of all men's dreams include other
men about 70% of the time women's dreams
however involve both men and women
equally all these other men and the guys
dreams are usually strangers and the
atmosphere is much more aggressive women
dream more about people they know in
places they're familiar with sorry guys
you win some you lose some number 11 in
dreams we only see faces that we've
already seen before
speaking of strangers and dreams their
faces are actual face as you've seen in
real life you see our mind isn't as good
as inventing faces as it is at
recognizing or remembering them so that
random stranger who held a door open for
you like eight years ago
their face could have made it into one
of your dreams by now number 12 dreams
are good for your creativity some
experts say that dreams have no purpose
at all while others believe they're
essential to our emotional mental and
physical well-being in any case they are
an excellent way to reboot our
creativity that's why a lot of people
swear by keeping a dream journal not
only could it potentially help you work
through an issue or figure something out
but you could be the next big inventor
Hey
it helped Tesla out remember
number thirteen your brain is more
active when you're dreaming then when
you're awake you might think all of you
is resting at night but your brain is
actually more active during sleep than
when you're awake this boost in activity
happens during the REM stage of sleep
which is also considered paradoxical
because while all this activity is going
on in our brain and body our muscles
become more relaxed and our voluntary
muscles become immobilized
speaking of which number fourteen you
experience sleep paralysis during your
dreams among the many things that go on
during REM sleep the most interesting is
the combination of body paralysis and
dreaming but it does make a lot of sense
if you're running from something in a
dream you won't be able to physically
get up and run out of your bed if your
body freezes itself it's like a built-in
safety feature kind of like a seat belt
number 15 the brain can incorporate
reality into dreams if there's something
happening around you while you're
dreaming like drilling for example you
might start dreaming that you're at the
dentist getting a cavity filled
whoa talk about an anxiety inducing
dream yep your brain is capable of
pulling in a completely unrelated piece
of reality and making sense of it in a
dream number 16
you can thank TV for the fact you dream
in color and studies done from 1915
through the 1950s researchers found that
the vast majority of people only dreamed
in black and white but everything
changed in the 1960s and people slowly
started dreaming in color a lot more
scientists believe that this could be
attributed to the invention of color
television so is there something or
someone you dream about often let's
share dreams stories in the comments
below if you enjoyed this video be sure
to give it a like share it with your
friends and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side of life sweet dreams
[Music]